=== 1.txt ===
Cat Goes Fishing > Guides > R.E.M's Guides
Cat Goes Fishing
Guides
325 ratings
[UPDATED SEPT 24TH!]
Every fish + Complete World
map in Cat Goes Fishing
By R.E.M
UPDATED SEPT 24TH 2024
Thank you all for being such a wonderful community, I really do love to work on
this guide and I appreciate all the support!
A guide to help you 100% every category in your catalog!
Since this is an exhausted list of every single fish in the game that this guide is
extremely spoiler heavy!
If you need to find a specific fish quickly, you can use CTRL+F to search for the
names of the fish. Hope that helps!
If this helps my rod setup is usually
Improved crank x 2
Sinker
Flick
Diving lure
Scouting
Bait Guard
[Any attachment for the last one, I usually switch it or an improved crank for
detonator or bomb stacks.]
=== 2.txt ===
The Trawler Net available for the boat is a good way to catch fish for selling,
HOWEVER, trawler catches to NOT count towards quests or your catalog.
If I've messed anything up, let me know! I'd love for this guide to be as accurate
as possible, all the time. If pictures (OR VIDEOS) are wanted, I can make it
happen.
Extra note, I'm sure you are wondering why I do this instead of just pulling info
from the wiki, I really love to discover this game and write down what I
personally find from my experiences rather than regurgitate pre-existing
information. Since I started this guide before the wiki existed, I've been working
on it a long time and plan to continue to do so since it means a lot to me
weirdly. The only fish I rely on outside information for are Secret fish like
Maskfish or Underfin, since I'd have little to no way of knowing they exist
without such help.
Also what I mean by "before the wiki existed" is by the time the Dragon was
released or a little before it maybe, the wiki had not been updated for a long
time and was extremely bare-bones, so I resorted to compiling my own up-todate information in the guide that you are looking at right now.
MAP REFERENCES
KEEP IN MIND
SOME OF THE DRAWN-IN AREAS ARE NOT TO SCALE, it's a very rough estimation of how the caves
look. Now that Sonar is un-jammable, I will be connecting screenshots together instead of handdrawing, this will be far more accurate than my previous method.
The names of these areas will be used to help visualize where fish are. You can click on the image to
see it better.
=== 3.txt ===
NOT
E
The
"REE
F" area is referred to as the Coral Basin in-game. Reef was just a bit shorter.
And, "THE EDGE" is know as the Distant sea.
The stalker can be found following any huge fish in the game! keep that in mind when trying to find it.
Small fish
I'll be going in order on the catalog for all of these lists.
CUDDLEFISH
This is one of the first fish you catch, so there isn't much to say here.
SNOBFISH
These fish are found all over the map, and can be very useful when futher out at sea where there are
less small fish to catch for bait. Make use of these fish any chance you get.
SWOOPER
Another very easy fish to catch, can be found in the shallow areas of the ocean.
ROUNDFIN
Found just barely off-screen from shore, and swim in a circular pattern. Easy to catch in realism.
KINGFISH
Kingfish swarm around the Queen-fish, and are easy to catch with small or medium bait. They can get
in the way of catching a Queen-fish, but this can be easily avoided with the Bait guard upgrade and a
large sized bait. Once you've caught a Queen-fish, the King-fish will swarm your boat, making it very
easy to get lots of money or medium bait no matter where you might be.
GALLINA
Gallina are another easy fish to catch, found further off-shore in very shallow waters. They can
primarily be found near where Cowfish spawn.
SKITTER, YELLOW AND RED
Common, yellow skitters are found swarming around one Red, alpha skitter. It can be challenging to
=== 4.txt ===
catch a red skitter as the whole swarm moves very quickly, and is a bit deeper than the surface level.
There are a couple of swarms found around the Sour-fish and Tiger-shark area.
There's no very easy way to go about catching a red skitter. The best strategy is to wittle away the
yellow skitter from around the alpha, and to finally catch the alpha once it's alone.
EMBER A small orange fish with burnt-like tips to it's fins, found just off the shore swimming in a slow
line about mid-depth, kind of in an area above the Shark's path. The clutter of fish around may make it
hard to spot at first.
TANGFISH
Tang-fish are small and easy fish to catch, found around the same area as Skitters. They're a bit under
the surface, but probing around where Sour-fish are may help you locate a few.
TETRA
Tetras are a bit deep in the water, swimming in a school that moves back and fourth at about the midlevel ocean range, around the area Crayfish and Chompys spawn.
TAPPY
Tappy are similar to Tetra, spawning in a similar area but a tad bit deeper. They can be found around
the large cluster of Sizzers.
TRILLOW
These fish can be found swimming in a wide and loose circle pattern, around the mid-ocean range. The
most notable group of them is under the higher-resting group of Sizzers, around the sour-fish and
Chompy area.
BULBFISH
Bulbfish are found in the darker, deeper regions of the ocean. They spawn in a line-like pattern across a
specific level of the deep. They're easy to spot, from their glow. The Maw can often be found trying to
eat a bulbfish, circling it for eternity. Catching an intact bulbfish unlocks the lightbulb lure for your rod.
Bulbfish can be a bit tricky because of the long haul up, they often get eaten. This can be really
annoying, but having the Flick upgrade and a few reel upgrades should help.
These fish are crucial to catching The Maw.
PINK KISSER
A small fish found on top of the Reef wall area, very straightforward to catch. Having the second-tobest boat will stop you right over this reef wall, making it easy to catch them. They're most notable
trait is a bright pink coloration and a kissing-like expression.
GARDER
Also found on top of the reef wall, easy to catch. Have a pale-red color, and a sharp upper fin.
=== 5.txt ===
BOMBAT
To put it simply, Bombats are a PAIN if you're trying to get a bonefish. Bombats are small, bat like fish
that hang on the tops and edges of the caves. They will grab onto anything round, including your
bombs. They will explode bombs if they latch onto them, and that can be really bothersome when
trying to get other cave fish.
To catch one, you need to have any sized bait, and make your way down to the sea-floor of the offshore and open ocean areas before the reef. If you've made it there with bait still, perfect, that's what
you want. There are round rocks littering the ground of the seafloor, and you can pick them up if you
have bait on your hook. If you move around a bit, you should be able to locate a hole down into the
caves, if you make your way down one using flick or sinker, scoping around should land you a bombat
rather quickly. Other fish will still bite bombats, so be cautious reeling them up. They shouldn't put up a
fight in realism either, making it rather easy to catch them.
Bombats are crucial in catching the Cave shark, though.
SKRIMP
Teeny tiny shrimp, found at the sea-floor area just before the basin on the "drop-off". If you start at the
reef wall, and explore backwards towards shore, you are heading in the right direction. If you find
Guppers, you're too deep, and you need to reel up to find the "Drop-off" that goes into the basin. They
typically spawn along that area. You're going to need small bait for it, so bombs are highly
recommended.
BABY SIZZER
Baby Sizzer are found swimming around the mostly stationary adults, and if you try to catch one, the
mother will most likely break your line. In realism It's best to have a very fast reel for this, or gauge to
strengthen it. It's a delicate procedure to keep an adult sizzer from snapping your line. Easiest way to
do this is to have bait guard, and a large bait. If you catch the adult Sizzer, the babies will follow. Try to
be careful doing this, though. Other adult Sizzers will try to snap your line if you try to catch an adult.
CELAD
Found on top of the reef wall. They're easy to spot by their green color. They're very round-shaped.
INNO
Small, pale white and yellow fish found on top of the reef wall.
PENNYFIN
Little purple fish found on top of the reef wall.
PUFF
Small pufferfish found in the area around the swordfish, in the mid-ocean area before the reef, and
above the basin. A cluster of them can be found before the reef wall, but around the same level as the
top of it. They start small and yellow, and once caught will puff up. No fish will try to bite the
pufferfish, so don't worry about them getting bitten. They are used to catch the Swordfish.
=== 6.txt ===
YIN AND YANG
Yin, the mainly white, can be found deep in the Basin, hugging the side of the reef wall. Yang, the
mainly black, is found in the very first hole you can find to the caves from the shore. Both of these fish
are a struggle to catch. Flick is very useful in the case.
Start by finding Yang, which shouldn't be hard. Sink your way into the first cave entrance from the
shore and move your hook left, where there should be some Yang circling, there are 3 of them. With a
medium or small bait, it should start circling the bait, move slowly, keep it circling your bait and
navigate slowly through the caves towards the basin. Other fish will be an obstacle, so make sure you
stay out of their aggro-range so they don't steal your bait. If you're able to successfully lead Yang to
one of the Yin in the basin, they should begin to circle each other. Now you should be able to catch
either one.
There are definitely more in-depth guides and maps about this process, I highly urge you check them
out as they can help a lot.
CLOWNFISH
Clownfish are found just between the darker deeps and the mid-ocean, They can be found in the same
area as Puff, swimming back and fourth in a loose group. Easy catch, and worth a good amount.
ANGLE
Look like a brown, non-glowing Bulbfish. They're found in the deeper part of the Reef area.
SASSY
Sassy are found wiggling up and down, practically stationary above the pink "Life tree" just above the
sea-floor, to the left of the drop-off and basin area. Easy to catch.
SKIGGLE
Skiggle look like little white and yellow worms, and are found in the Reef, a bit above the hole that
leads to the reef caves.
Small fish 2
DIRE TRILLOW
Dire trillow are found in the Reef, moving in a large circular pattern much like the normal version.
PURDY
Can be found in the deeper parts of the reef, swimming around the floor. Be cautious reeling them up,
as more often then not a bigger fish will nibble on your catch.
HUE
Hue can be found in a few different places, they're a hot pink/purple color and can be seen in the deep
=== 7.txt ===
reef, the reef wall, and the floor of the reef. Scoping around this area should land you one.
SEA JEEPY
These pale-white fish are found typically on top of the Reef wall.
CASPER
A white and pale-teal boomerang shaped fish that can be found in the deep reef, and occasionally on
the Reef wall.
CHAW
Chaw swarm in the open area near the surface above the Silo. Chaw have some of the most intense
aggro ranges of any fish, rivaling that of the Sour-fish. This can make them really annoying when
trying to get any smaller fish that spawn in the Silo, and medium fish especially. Bait guard is HIGHLY
recommended with these pesky fish.
BABYJAW
Baby jaw are found in the open water near the surface above the Silo. They follow the bigger Yellow
jaws, and are pretty easy to catch with basic or medium bait. The only thing in your way would be
Chaw.
SWISHER
Swishers are a bit hard to find, but reliably they spawn at either day OR night on the left, top edge of
The Empty cave entrance. You can catch them by opening your game, equipping your boat and rushing
to their location and casting your line. Their problem is, I think their "swim loop," or the predetermined
path they swim on is so long, that they end up disappearing very shortly after they spawn for an
undetermined amount of time, as I have found them again after having the game open for a while.
GNAWER
Gnawers can be found on the Reef floor, to the left of the hole that leads to the reef caves.
RANA
They can be found right above the hole that leads to the Reef caves.
SNUGGLER
Snugglers are a bit difficult to find because of their location in open water. They're about in the midocean range, more towards the outer areas of the swarm of fish that spawn far above the Silo, and also
more towards where the Chaw don't spawn. They're very similarly shaped to a Cuddlefish.
JACKFISH
Jackfish are one of the few fish that spawn down in the complicated depths of the Reef caves. They
can be mostly found to the right of the Lemonback caves, above the crystal cave and Elf leg.
=== 8.txt ===
CRYSTALFISH
If you follow the map, this elusive fish should be easy to find. It's found in the Crystal cave, marked on
the map. Be careful catching this fish, there is a lot that will get in your way.
!! NEW FISH !!
PHASE
The phase is a strange looking small fish, blue finned body with little spots. Phase is strange in that it
exists as 2 "hologram" like parts that must meet in the middle for it to become solid. You may find one
of these transparent halves floating by in the reef caves or empty caves. Follow the red half or blue half
and eventually the two parts meet, and it will hook. Usually, the two parts meet near the bottom of The
Empty cave, a little to the right side. I suggest checking there if you can't seem to find either half of it,
it comes around eventually on it's own.
CONPAS
A gray body and a pointy, shiny nose makes this fish resemble the hand of a compass. They can be
found sitting rather stationary along the bottom of the Dragon zone, a sinker and flick should help you
find these easily by following the rockbed. These little fish also spawn on the top of the rock just
before the first dropoff to the Dragon Zone. Conpas point towards the location of the Goldfish.
TIM
Tim is a white, glowing, ghostly visage of a sort of small fish. Very cute imo. They can be found around
the area just above the silo, and are very easy to spot since their body glows in the dark.
AIRY
Blue and yellow slim fish with wings! these fish are definitely hard to find, because, well, they fly
behind and above your boat. The best way to get them is Casting finesse, Detonator, and bomb
stacker. Put plenty of bombs on your line, and Cast quickly twice (as in double click very fast!) it should
allow you to send your line flying behind you. Use the detonator to bomb the fish from the air, and
they should fall into the water below where you can catch them.
RODI
This little orangeish red fish is found following it's parent and sibling in the Very Distant Sea and Kelp
area above the Labyrinth in a sporadic pattern. To catch either of the siblings, try to wait until Rodilav
(the parent) is not actively following or near the specific youngling, and lure it (without hooking it)
away towards the surface. Once you're near the surface without breaking the surface, hook it, and
Rodilav will not have the chance to snap your line.
LAV
This pinkish red fish is found following it's parent and sibling in the Very Distant sea and kelp area
above the Labyrinth as well, and is caught the same way as it's sibling. Wait unti Rodilav is not actively
following it, and it seems somewhat alone, lure it to the surface and only then should you hook it
=== 9.txt ===
before you break the water.
MAIZE
This small gray striped fish lives in the Labyrinth caves, only one of these fish spawns at a time. It is
following what seems to be a random path around the tunnels, so you might need to wait around for it
to show up. They are easy to catch, but have a short lunge range and may be a bit difficult to get out
of the Labyrinth. I recommend catching Flash before Maize, otherwise it will steal it from you as Flash
is a swordfish and functions the same as it's larger counterpart.
FLECHETTE
These thin gray fish with red back spines and tail tips follow around a large snouted fish, Rogachev.
They should be easy to catch on their own, I do not yet know how the Rogachev interferes with
catching, as I was able to catch it normally but the Rogachev started to make spitting noises towards
my line.
THERMO
Thermo are little glowing fish that look to have vertical vent like things on the sides of their body, they
swarm around either of the two Magmers that reside deep at the bottom areas of the Labyrinth. To
catch one, it is very simple. Just try not to have your bait stolen by the Magmer, and get it close to a
Thermo that is circling it. With good crank speed you should be able to do it easily.
FUMER
These small, red and angry fish bear the king's symbol ( a crown,) and will quickly chase your bait
when you lower it towards the kelp and labyrinth area after having freed them from the caves in the
very distant sea. To open the caves, see the Buffalo Fish entry.
RARE FRUIT
Resembling a dragonfuit somewhat, these little fish swim around near the Cheese fish, in the kelp
above the Labyrinth. Easy to catch.
LIL CHEESEFIN
This small, round, yellow and cheese-like fish is found in the further areas of the kelp swarming with
Rare Fruit, and the Larger Cheesfins. They are simple to catch, no special requirements.
ORWELLIAN
Round brown and blue fish that sit on the seabed of the left side of the Plateau,
BOOM PUFF
These red pufferfish are found in the Very Distant Sea above the Kelp area, easy to catch with just any
small bait but will explode when bitten by another fish or if you detonate a bomb next to them.
Sometimes you can chain these explosions in the group. This explosion will also startle Buffalo fish.
=== 10.txt ===
CHRONO
This little pale blue, whispy fish is found in the second cave behind the KingFish's cave under the
Plateau, easy enough to catch. See Buffalo fish entry on how to open this cave, as it applies to all
subsequent cave blockages.
Small fish 3
REMI
Remi are little purple striped fish that navigate a set path in the Labyrinth caves in a line of 3, easy to
catch.
FEEN
Colorful little fish that swim about the Labyrinth caves, easy to catch.
NEWK
This colorful fish is found on the left side of the Plateau, hidden away in a tiny pocket alone. Dunkan
will fiercly protect it, so you will need to catch them first. Otherwise, a very easy catch on it's own.
SPEC
These small clear blue fish are found in the very last cave pocket of the Plateau caves, behind where
the Kingfish is. You will need to open the cave of course, so see the Buffalo Fish entry for more info.
Otherwise, simple catch.
CENTY
Centy are purple fish that loosely resemble a roman soldier's helmet, sporting a mohawk-like dorsal fin
and marching through the caves of the labyrinth in a long line. Easy to catch.
NOXIUS
A brown fish with green frills atop it's head, found bumbling slightly right of the silo door down by the
seabed. This fish is a secret fish, so won't normally be found in your catalog. While intimidating, it's
actually not terribly hard to catch if you're lvl 90, which in itself may seem intimidating as well but is
very simple to achieve.
(PATCHED) doesn't seem to work anymore sorry. If you need to get to lvl 90 quickly, I suggest
catching Josie repeatedly, don't throw it into your boat just catch and release a few times over and the
levels will start rolling in, along with precious breath capacity.
To catch Noxius, I suggest heavily clearing out almost every fish above the silo you can, all of it.
Trawler net will help a ton with this. Once this area is sufficiently clear of fish, go and catch a bulbfish,
put it in your boat. Return to the area above the silo. Press Q to start swimming, use CTRL to grab the
=== 11.txt ===
bulbfish from your boat and being to tap the down-arrow-key, let the momentum carry you before
pressing again, it's the best way to preserve oxygen. The bulbfish you are carrying down with you also
allows you to preserve oxygen as you descend. Even then, it's best to take your time with this, don't
rush or hold down the arrow key. Once you've made it to the area, Noxius should be there, if it isn't at
first, just wait a moment and it will swim by in a rapid jittering motion. Press CTRL over Noxius as it
swims by to grab it, you may need to lunge at it to do this. Once you have it grabbed, repeat the
method you did descending to reascend, slowly, and by tapping the up-arrow, let the momentum of
each key-press carry you upwards before pressing again. Once you're back to your boat, swim into it
and let go of Noxius so it rests in the boat's bed. Now, you just need to return to your boat and bam!
Super overly worded but hopefully this works for you like it did for me!
If you're having trouble keeping track of where Noxius is, you can cast your line down to where it is and
then press Q to swim, letting the line guide you.
Bird
A red Cardinal, typically seen helping you cast further while wearing the Kardinal Mythical hat. You
must have the ability to buy mythic hats, gained by releasing Josie. Once you have both the Kardinal
hat and the Dig hat from the labyrinth, you must go back to shore and unequip your boat. Get the
worm by casting backwards, and one you have this, sell the dig hat, equip the Kardinal hat, and
carefully cast your rod so that the worm lands right where you're sitting. May take a couple tries, but
eventually the bird will bite and you'll have it!
Medium fish
All Medium fish require medium (Yellow) bait to catch.
MUSTARDFISH
Can be found anywhere on the map, in the shallow to mid-ocean range. Good for large bait, mainly
stationary.
GRUMPER
Aggressive yellow fish found in the more open ocean parts of the map, and are very fast with a large
aggro range.
BEAKFISH
These purple fish can be found between the open ocean and off-shore areas, in the mid-ocean range.
They're underneath the area that the furthest Cowfish are found.
GARUMP
Another shark like medium fish found near the farthest pair of Cowfish, and can be easily spotted by
their green and orange colors.
=== 12.txt ===
LEOFISH
To the right of the furthest set of Cowfish, just above the deeps of the ocean are these purple striped
fish. They're mostly stationary, so they should be easy to find.
BULLFISH
When you make your way out to the Reef wall and open ocean area, Bullfish will patrol just under your
boat in a back and forth pattern. This makes them very easy to catch.
SIZZER
Sizzer are found stationary in the Open ocean area of the map, surrounded in Baby sizzer. These are
rather easy to find, but can be hard to catch due to the fact that other sizzer in view range will try to
snap your line and free your catch. Be mindful of this when going to catch one!
BLEAPER
Bleaper can be found at night, in groups patrolling your boat. When you cast your line, they will often
leap into the air after it and steal it once it lands in the water. This can make them extremely annoying.
You only need medium bait to catch one, and a little bit of coaxing the bait in front of the fish to hook
it.
QUEENFISH
Queenfish are found in the open ocean and off-shore area, surrounded by Kingfish. They're easy to
catch if you have large bait and the bait guard upgrade, as this keeps the kingfish from being hooked
by accident. When you catch a queenfish and put it in your boat, the swarm of Kingfish will follow your
boat.
SIBILFIN
Sibilfin are fast, pink fish found between the open ocean and offshore area, always being chased by a
large, red Turgeon. This makes it difficult to catch an undamaged one, but with a fast reel and some
medium bait, you can definitely manage it.
GAWKER
Green fish found in the off-shore underneath the furthest set of cowfish, just above the lower midocean range. Should be pretty easy to catch with medium bait.
CURBY
Curby are darker green, striped fish that can be found between the Reef wall and Open Ocean area.
They are about mid-ocean range. They often get spooked by Gabu, moving around only a little bit.
SOURFISH
Found anywhere from the Open Ocean area to The Edge of the map, typically in shallow and midocean areas. Their huge aggro range makes it easy to find them.
=== 13.txt ===
STALKER
Stalkers are hard to find, but they should be around the open ocean area. They're long, purple and
white-striped fish. To catch one, you need to catch the fish they're following, and then you'll be able to
catch the stalker, which will follow your boat.
NIGHTFISH
Nightfish can be caught in the deeper parts of the open ocean. During the night, they will swim up
higher and further than they would in the day. They can also be found in the caves, follow Sire
Nightfish.
LUMINA
Lumina are easy to spot, as they're glowing blue. They're found in the deeper parts of the off-shore
and open ocean area.
KERNEL
A drab greenish-brown fish found along the weeded rock-bed area around the Coral tree just offshore,
above the caves.
SPALLOW
Spallow are found a bit below the surface of the off-shore and open ocean area, swimming quickly
around. Their colorful striped blue and orange patterns make them easy to spot.
SNOUTFISH
Yellow and blue spotted fish with a large snout on them, they can be found in a upper pocket of the
caves, and sometimes tagging along bigger fish in the open-ocean area.
STORMY
Stormy are brown and yellow, and during the day they are mainly stationary, just above the sea floor.
He can be seen just above the sonar limit from the boat, underneath the spot where the Tiger-shark
swims around. If you lower your hook far below the Tiger-shark, you should be able to find him.
CARVER
Found in caves, The easiest place to find them is in The Empty. Lower your hook straight down into The
Empty basin, and they should be the only fish there.
LIONFISH
Lion fish are found on top of the reef wall, and to catch one, you need to catch a small fish while
having a huge hook on your line. When a lionfish bites the fish on your hook, it should catch it.
CRAYFIN
Crayfin are one of the harder fish to catch. They're blue, with a yellow belly. They're found in the Open
ocean just before the Reef wall, following a large, grey Chompy.
=== 14.txt ===
To catch a Crayfin, you need to first get a large bait with a huge hook, and hook the Chompy. DON'T
PUT THE CHOMPY IN YOUR BOAT, let it go. This will make the Crayfin trust you, now you should be
able to catch it easily. Make sure that the Crayfin isn't near it's Chompy, or the chompy will snap your
line when you hook the Crayfin.
BLISSY
A purple striped fish found in the Reef, not too hard to catch.
WOMBLER
A yellow, funny shaped fish found in the deeper parts of the Reef, it shouldn't be hard to catch one.
BO
These are blue fish found in the Reef, often swimming in the more shallow to mid-ocean area nearer
the reef wall.
CAVIN
Cavin can be found along the sea floor in a group from the shore, if you hug the wall and make it to the
bottom you can find them.
YELLOWJACK
Stationary yellow fish found just past the Reef wall, in the shallow reef.
SPINEFISH
Spiney yellow fish found in a cluster, almost exactly in the middle of the Reef. They shouldn't be hard
to catch either.
BITTERFISH
Bitter fish are pale pink, and look like a gulper eel. They can be found in the mid-ocean to shallow area
above The Silo. They aren't hard to catch, and you may find yourself catching them accidentally more
often than not.
FURROW
Another fish found in the mid-ocean to shallow area above the Silo. Shouldn't be hard to find. They're
pale yellow, almost brown.
YELLOWJAW
These are green and yellow fish that swim around at the surface above the Silo, followed by Baby jaws.
They look like little old men, it's weird.
SLIMEY
Slimey are pale teal-green fish that swims very deep in the water above the Silo. Easy to find if you go
to the very edge, and plunge your hook straight down.
=== 15.txt ===
LAMBY
Lamby are easy to find, they swim around very deep in the ocean, above the Silo. You should be able
to find them because they glow a subtle yellow color.
GLACIER
Glaciers are faintly glowing blue fish found on the very left of The Empty and in the Reef caves.
They can be a bit tricky to find, but once you do it's a rewarding feeling.
GOLDBEARD
Goldbeard can be a pretty difficult fish to catch, as he spawns in the center area of the Surface Silo
fish. Bombs recommended, to clear the area around it. you can scope around the lower mid-ocean to
deep in order to find him. His bright yellow coloration and prominent beard makes him stand out.
SODAFISH
One of the hardest medium fish to catch. This sucker might take you a while, it took me a while.
Flick and sinker will help you a lot here, I highly suggest them.
The soda fish is found swimming in the mid-ocean range at the furthest point the Collier boat can take
you, and sometimes he can go a bit further than that point. The trick is, get some medium bait and get
his attention with it. White he's distracted with the bait, move it around him to get him upside down.
Once he's upside-down, the soda will start to slide out of the holster. If you get him too far away from
the soda can, he'll run back to it. If you're fast enough, you can grab the soda with your hook and you
can catch it with the soda.
Medium fish 2
GHAST
Ghasts, surprised I missed them, but they should be pretty easy to find. They're on the far right of what
I've labeled as the "Dragon area," but left of the sort of 'dropoff' that leads to the silo. I was able to find
a few near the seafloor, so some re-casting and searching might be required.
BLOOPER
Blooper are rather rotund in shape, a soft-light blue in color with a mouth in the shape of "(". These
fish can be found swimming slowly near the Reef in a group. They can't be caught with normal bait,
instead, you equip your line with a large hook (as far as I know) and catch a small fish, *WITH THE
SMALL FISH STILL ON YOUR HOOK,* lure over the Bloopers and they should catch now!
BLOSSIP
Blossip are hard to miss, they vaguely resemble lily pads with their light and dark green mottled bodies,
adorned with a small flower on their head. These fish can be found almost anywhere, skimming the
surface of the water. It seems like they're most receptive to bait at the very bottom of their "dip" from
=== 16.txt ===
the surface, using flick to put the bait directly into their mouth seems to be the easiest way to catch
these fish. They are just rather lazy about chasing bait.
AKUMA
With their black bodies and bright red fins, these fish are also hard to miss when you see them. They
swim slowly in a decently sized group at the deeper part of the Reef. These fish don't seem to like light,
and can easily be caught with a medium bait if you don't have a light-bulb equipped. A new group of
these has seemed to spawn in the area just before the "above silo" fish area.
GOLDFISH
These gold, sparkling fish are found down in the lower parts of "The Empty," and potentially the
Labyrinth. The easiest way to find them is to see which way the Conpas are pointing, as they will point
their red noses to wherever the Goldfish are. No other special catching requirements.
SMARTY
You can find this pale orange and red finned fish, find Duncan on the very far left edge of the Plateau,
under the pod of Young and Blue Cuspers. Just above where Duncan is, will be Smarty. To catch
Smarty, bring your bait close to the sea floor, and only then will he hook. In realism he may try to snap
your hook on the seafloor, which means you will need flick for that.
BULB EATER
Bulbeaters are thin, grayish purple fish with white backhalves. I'm sure you've seen them, since as you
noticed they eat your lightbulb. To catch them, put a huge hook on your line, catch a tim, and carefully
lower it far enough for the Bulb Eater to catch attention, it should catch.
If you just want to avoid them, a bomb and detonator attachment work well.
UNDERFIN
After much trial and frustration I finally caught it.
This sleek black fish is found underneath the map in the very bottom of The Empty cave, and is
agonizing to try and get depending on your luck. My preferred method is to get medium bait, huge
hook, and flick. Hook a small fish, and lower your bait all the way down to the Cuddlecanth fossil at the
bottom of the cave, align your bait to the side of it just above the bottom of the map, and move your
boat towards the shore. It will catch on the side of the fossil, but don't worry we're doing that on
purpose. Continue moving your boat left without reeling to the shore until you can see on your Sonar
box that the line is pointing near to the left-most corner, once you get there, flick to the right to free
your bait. If it didn't snap and is free of the rock, move a decent bit to your right. Ideally, you want the
bait to be sinking in the center-ish spot of the cave, don't hug the left side. Hopefully if your bait sank
in the right area, you should hear the crunch of the Underfin eating the small fish on your line, which is
why I prefer this method. If you don't hear it, try reeling up while in the center, pace your line back and
fourth if needed to scope out the area. You may need to redo it a few times.
GARM
=== 17.txt ===
Styled somewhat like an orange if it were a fish. They sit rather stationary just before the Labyrinth
starts, easiest way to find them is to just sink your lure where the pod of Blue and Young Cuspers are.
DIJON
This brown fish resembles a larger version of a mustardfish, and lives a sationary life in the Kelp area of
the Very Distant Sea. Catching just takes medium bait.
YOUNG CUSPER
Smaller, pink versions of Cuspers that appear in a small pod in the Very Distant Sea. Just takes medium
bait but shouldn't give you much trouble at all.
CUDA
This green barracuda like fish lives in the kelp area of the Very Distant Sea, and will snap your line
extremely quickly. Luckily, this fish is very aggressive when chasing your bait. I recommend putting 4
Improved Crank, and Rising Lure on your line so you can match speed with it. This way, you can lure it
close to the surface before hooking it so you can catch it before it breaks your line!
FIN
Purple dolphin-ish shaped fish that zoom about in the higher parts of the Very Distant Sea, not hard to
miss, just need to be quick and have medium bait!
ROGACHEV
A snouted yellow and purple-fin-tipped fish that wanders around the Plateau and Kelp area with a
swarm of Flechettes following it. It will fire these small fish at your bait sometimes, which is key to
catching it. Equip a huge hook before doing this and make sure you have flick. Let the Flechettes hook
and then purposefully have a medium fish eat the Flechette and hook itself, use flick to shake it off and
repeat until there are no more Flechettes. Rogachev should take your bait now, and hook.
BISHOP
These gray sword shaped fish, (not like a swordfish but a fish, sword?) circle around Regina and The
King Fish in the Very Distant Sea and caves there, they will fiercely protect the two royal fish they
follow and snap your line when you try to catch them. They can be caught with just medium bait.
CAVAL
Green fish with red webbed wing-like fins, they are released when the wall to the King's room is
broken, after which they patrol above the Plateau and Kelp areas. Easy to catch with just some medium
bait.
MUDBACK
This brown spiny fish lives just inside the Labyrinth caves, to the right of the Buffalo fish area. They are
very simple to catch, and just need medium bait.
=== 18.txt ===
PRIMAL TURGEON
A relative of the larger off-shore Turgeon, sporting a more pointed body and rougher physique, with
green stripes along it. To catch it, you'll need a huge hook, and live bait, much like how you catch the
shark it will only accept live fish.
MINUTE
I wonder if the name if this fish is pronounced "Minnut" like, as in time, or "Minewt" like in stature..
anyway, this porcelain like fish with blue swirling is found in the second pocket of the Plateau caves. It
can be easily caught with medium bait.
SWOOSHER
This blueish fish lives at the bottom of the second Plateau cave area, easy to catch with medium bait.
ZUB
This blue, hatted fish with a yellow "Z" on it's side is found above the rockbed filled with fossils right of
the Silo, it isn't interested in any bait, but can be caught if you get a huge hook, hook a Rare fruit
(found in the kelp by the cheesefin,) and bring it all the way over to Zub.
BRAMBLE
Relatives of the brimble, this energetic orange fish is found just before the rockbed of the Plateau
swimming up and down. Caught easily with medium bait.
VOLTEEN
A blue and yellow fish that glows, found around the kelp area. Approaching it at first may startle it
down into a little pocket near the rockbed, afterwhich, gently lowering a medium bait down near them
will make them lunge.
Medium fish 3
POWERFIN
This zippy yellow, lightning-bodied fish can be found darting around near the opening to Mamo's den,
and the area slightly above the rockbed of the Dragon zone. I was able to catch it pretty easily with
large bait and a light. If you get a huge hook on your line, and catch a Conpas, you can bring your line
over to the area that the Powerfin is. It will grab your hook, and drag it far far out into the distant
ocean where the huge fish "Problematicus" and another robotic looking fish is, that doesn't seem to be
in the catalog as far as I can tell.
LUMOS
This bright little fish is found in the second Plateau cave pocket, easy to catch with some medium bait
per usual.
=== 19.txt ===
FLASH
This small ancestor of the Swordfish resides in the Labyrinth, stealing fish off your line much like the
larger version. It is caught much the same too, you must have a huge hook and a small fish on your
line, let the Flash spear it with it's nose and it should hook.
LINDFIN
This bizarre looking purple, green, and red fish is found swimming above the far-right entrance of the
Labyrinth, right where the furthest point of the Tech boat is. Catching it requires you to catch the Tart
first, as it will snap your line when you hook Lindfin. To get lindfin to hook, you need to have your
medium bait near the cat-ears hat on the rockbed just below it. You don't need to hook the hat, just
have your bait in it's vicinity. Then afterwards you can collect the hat!
TRICK
Can only be caught on Halloween (Oct 31st) at night, found just above the Coral Reef Wall. If you are
having trouble getting it to spawn like I did, set your clock to exactly 12 AM, October 31st. You'll know
it worked if the game prompts "Happy Halloween!" when you open it. After this all you need is a
medium bait to catch it, however you may not want to at first since it's used to catch the secret Treat
fish.
TREAT
To catch the treat, you need to lure the Trick all the way over to the upper-sea above the silo. It should
be right above the threshold that you sonar will zoom in, under the large main cluster of fish. The treat
won't appear until you bring Trick over to the right area, and then you can catch the Treat easily. If you
want an easier time catching it, I recommend clearing the area out of larger fish before doing this,
since you might have a small armada chasing you if you don't. TIP: If you've already caught the trick
before treat, just change your date to another day and then change it back to the 31st, it should
respawn.
Large fish
COWFISH
Orange spotted, friendly looking fish. Easy to find, easy to catch. There are two pairs in the shallows,
the off-shore one, and the one that's nearest to the open-ocean area.
SERAPH
Yellow streamlined fish, found zooming around off-shore. They're fast, and a bit hard to catch in
realism. They can be mainly found in the shallow to mid-ocean area.
CATFIN
They're orange striped fish found in the open ocean area, in more shallow to mid-ocean areas. Their
size makes them easy to pick out.
=== 20.txt ===
TURGEON
Large, Red, fast and always chasing Sibilfins in the shallows of the off-shore area. They might be a little
hard to snag with a weaker rod in realism, so Gauge is always a useful upgrade.
BRIMBLE
Weird, orange striped fish found hugging the shore. They face up and down, and are easy to spot and
find. Should only take a large bait to catch them.
GEORGIAN
Georgian are orange and white spotted fish found in the mid-ocean area of the Open Ocean. They
swim slowly, and always alone. It might take some feeling around to find one.
FELISH
Pale brown fish found swimming just above the sea floor of the Open Ocean area, not too hard to nab.
TRUMBLE
Blue striped fish found in the lower mid-ocean level, a good landmark is underneath the area the Tiger
shark swims.
BAGU
Big headed, dark green striped fish found just before the Reef wall in a pair. Fast and aggressive fish.
ANGLERFISH
Anglerfish are easy to spot because of their radiant glow. They are just above the sea floor all along
the off-shore and opean ocean area.
STANKFIN
Stankfin look like salmon with really sharp teeth, and can be found in the caves. The easiest place to
find them is just under the 1st entrance to the caves. In realism, they love to jet upwards once hooked,
so I recommend luring them out of the cave before hooking them.
RAY
Rays can be found on the seafloor of the open ocean, and off-shore area. Not too hard to nab, in
realism and not. A better time to catch one is at night, they drift up from the seafloor to the deep area.
TORBY
Orange and white plump looking fish, found deep just above the basin, and just before the Reef wall.
There are only two of them, and if you don't want to extinct the species, only catch one per reload, or
else they will never respawn on that save. In order to 100% the large fish, though, you will need to
catch both. There is one more left of the basin, and one more towards the reef wall.
=== 21.txt ===
NIGHTFISH SIRE
Nightfish sires are big, purple spikey fish that can be found in the deeper part of the caves, on the map
it should be the pocket behind where the cave shark's little den is. They're followed around by normal
nightfish. I haven't caught these much, but they shouldn't be too difficult.
CAVEFISH
Found in caves, look like salmon but have yellow eyes, and are a pale brown color. They can be found
in really any part of the cave from what I remember, so if you sift around a bit it shouldn't be hard to
find one.
SPOTTER
An orange fish that looks like it's made of sponge. Easiest place to find one is at the sea floor, right
next to the pink tree underwater.
THRESHER
A dark, red orange colored fish that looks very aggressive. They can be found in the larger pocket of
the caves, where I wrote the word "CAVES" on the map.
KOIN
Yellow fish with a gold coin on their forehead, they swim in a pair in a very wide-spanning swimming
pattern that spans almost then entire Open ocean area. Their round, peculiar shape can make them
easy to spot.
CONGA
Pinkish-purple fish that move in a big conga line just before the Reef wall. They move from mid-ocean
to shallow, and can be a bit fast. Sometimes they will ball up, for some reason. Shouldn't be hard to
find.
GUPPER
Gupper are a cherry-pink, plump fish. Easiest place to find them is in the basin, just under the drop-off
to the left. I suggest luring one out into the open basin, or else it will snag your line on the top of the
cave in realism.
SWALLER
A pink, rounder fish with a lighter pink belly. They can be found in small groups in the deeper, almost
sea-floor level of the Reef.
TIK TIK
Light yellow almost golden colored fish that move fast and are often seen outside of the water flying
around willy-nilly. They are in the very highest shallows of the Reef, and Reef wall area. They can be a
little bit of a pain to catch.
=== 22.txt ===
Large fish 2
LEMONBACK
One of the most difficult large sized fish to catch, in my personal opinion. These pale-yellow and white
fish can be found residing just inside of the Reef caves, and in the very deepest part of the basin
hugging the right wall. They can be an absolute nightmare to lure out into the open, as the easiest way
to catch one is to lure it out from the tiny cracks in the deep basin. These fish will hug walls very
tightly, making them easy to find. The area you can best find them in, I've labeled Lemonback cave 1
and 2. This should help.
SANTU
A pale, orangish-red colored fish that looks similar to a carp. They can be found in the first pockets of
the Reef caves, coming from the top, and on the sea-floor of the Reef.
GORBON
These yellow-green striped fish can be found near the Yin in the Basin, hugging the upper lip of the
rock underneath the Yin. If you hug the right side of the cave wall next to the yin, and don't go in any
caves, you should find some.
JOSIE
A pretty purple fish. Used to be located near the Reef, but since "The Edge" update, it's about the
lower mid-ocean level around the further right side of "above silo" fish area. If I'm wrong about this,
feel free to let me know. This is just the area I'm familiar with it being in.
LUIFIN AND MIZIFIN
A pink a blue fish that swim in a pair in the Reef area, doing a little dance with each other. If one is
caught, the other will go into a sad, slow state, acting more like any other large fish would. It's a rather
sad sight to see.
CHOMPY
A large gray fish found in the Open ocean, just before the Reef wall. There will be a Crayfin following it.
The fastest way to catch one, is to just get a large bait, and catch it like you would any other large fish.
However, this method makes it impossible to catch the Crayfin. The way to get them both is to hook
the Chompy, and to release it back into the water instead of putting it in your boat. This makes the
Crayfin trust you, and you can catch the Crayfin with medium bait. Then you can catch the Chompy like
normal without any problems.
BONEFISH
=== 23.txt ===
Fish sleeping on the cave-floor in the main pocket of the caves, where I wrote "CAVES" on the map. To
awake a Bonefish, you need to have a bomb, and the Detonator upgrade on your rod. I also suggest
Flick, and sinker. It will make this process a lot easier. Lower your bombed-hook down to where the
Bonefish are sleeping, and detonate the bomb to wake them up. When you wake them up, they'll run
off to the right side of the map, and hang around the Reef area for you to catch them. Something that
would help against Bombats exploding your bomb is to have the bomb stacker upgrade as well.
DRAGONFISH
Looks like a dragon's head. It's on the right side of the Reef, facing off towards the Dragon waters.
All you need is a large bait.
PIERCER
A big, circular hot-pink fish with a horn coming off it's head. It can be found in the shallows and midocean level of surface area above the silo. You only need large bait for this fish.
THISTLE
The thistle is another hot-pink fish that looks very beaten-up, found in the deep to mid-ocean of the
area above the silo, and is stationary. It shouldn't be hard to find, because of it's large size.
LAMPIS
Lampis are a very interesting fish, and probably one of my favorites. It's got a loose, ooze-like body
structure a large glowing circles on it's body, which aren't it's eyes actually. This makes it easy to spot.
This fish is found in the deep dark area above The Silo.
GEIGER
A noxious, bomb-shaped fish that's dark green. These fish are found just above The Silo's door.
GERM
A weird looking fish that almost looks like a fungus, consisting of a yellow body and red parts on it's
top, bottom, and sides. This fish is found to the left of the Silo door, in the spot I marked on the map as
"GERM'S PLACE"
MAMO
Mamo is a large, pale brown fish that lives nestled in a cave with an egg. It's found just below the
dragon's spot, I've marked it on the map as "MAMO'S DEN." Going into the cave with any sort of bait
will make Mamo snap your line instantly, in order to protect it's egg. The only way to catch Mamo is to
lure the Dragon down into the cave with any sort of bait and a Mega hook, Mamo, who is afraid of the
Dragon, will become too scared to get close to the dragon and will move to the far side of the cave.
This allows you to pick up the egg, and lure the dragon back out. Using the Egg and a Mega hook, you
can now catch the Dragon. Back in the cave with Mamo, it will become extremely sad, looking like it's
crying. You can now catch it normally with large bait.
NOTE: You have to disable all sonar in order to lure the dragon and catch it. It's sensitive.
=== 24.txt ===
GHOST
The ghost looks like a transparent skeleton version of a Torby, and it only spawns on Stormy nights
when you have extinct both Torby on your save. Have medium bait on your line before you try to catch
it!. If you cast your line, sometimes a flash of lighting will show and a transparent Torby image with
appear behind you, when this happens, release your line and the skeleton/ghost torby should spawn.
Get yourself a large bait afterwards, recast, and it should be catchable as any other large fish is.
OLD CUSPER
These fish are seemingly eyeless, having a pale yellow color to them but otherwise physically resemble
normal Cuspers. In order to find them sink a large bait to a reasonable depth, with some patience they
will appear. I am not 100% sure if sonar is needed or not in order to do this, but I personally had sonar
on. My preferred area to do this is just before the dragon spot, and just after the reef.
BLUE CUSPER
Blue Cuspers are rather whale-like in their shape and color, being very light pale-gray with a happy
smile :D. In order to have them appear, you need to hold open your sonar for a while until they show
up. Once they show up, they will swarm your boat/shore and can be easily caught with large bait. A
new pod of these has showed up just beyond the silo, in the area just above deep ocean and
accompanied by Young Cuspers.
CUDDLECANTH
This fish heavily resembles the ancient but very real and currently still alive, Coelacanth fish. It's found
in the little empty pocket cave just above the fossil in The Empty cave, down at the bottom. However,
it's only there if you set your date to before Cat Goes Fishing's release. Personally I set mine to 1994,
for fun, but you don't need to go that far. 2014 should suffice. Otherwise it's just large bait of course.
BUFFALO FISH
These fish somewhat resemble Cowfish with a green coloration, and a rocky rhino horn on their head.
They appear in a small group of 3 at the first cave entrance in the Very Distant Sea. You can catch
them normally with as with any other large fish, but they have an interesting mechanic outside of
catching. Using bombs, you can lure and direct a Buffalo fish near the cracked left wall of the cave, and
with either patience or a detonator, you can startle the Buffalo fish into cracking it open. This releases
all of the "Royal fish" types that serve under the King Fish, including giving you access to the King Fish
himself.
TWOHEAD
Twohead are large red fish with a large underbite and orange accents, and sort of whiskers drooping
from their mouth. These fish are completely stationary, and are found in the furthest areas of the Kelp
zone. Super easy to catch, all you have to do is drop the bait in their mouth.
=== 25.txt ===
Large fish 3
RODILAV
The Rodilav, as there is only one, is a pinkish and orangish red that resembles both of it's children in a
larger form, and is found moving sporadically back and fourth looking over said children in the Plateau
and Kelp area. Catching it isn't terribly hard, just annoying. You must catch one of the children first,
and only after one has been caught can you catch Rodilav. If you catch both children and sell them
before Rodilav, it will run away.
GREAT CARVER
This larger version of the Carver is simple to catch, just found in the second pocket of the Plateau
caves and the King's Cave before you catch the kingfish, swimming along the inner walls.
MAGMER
The super-heated lava like fish Magmer is found in the deepest part of the Labyrinth above lava vents.
They will quickly snap your line (melting it,) if you try to hook them in their super-heated state. In
order to cool them down, you need to get a Glacier within distance of it. I recommend having the
Explorer hat, Sinker, diving lure, Flick, and a lot of patience. You don't actually even need to catch
Glacier to get this fish, just lure Glacier from The Empty all the way over to the Magmer cave, and if
you get them both following your bait, it will cool Magmer down, and allow you to catch it. A smooth
way to do this as well is to let Glacier cool Magmer down while you have a huge hook on your line,
catch Glacier then, and then let Magmer hook itself. Just be sure to pull it away from the lava vents
quickly, otherwise it will heat up again.
Extra info: You only need one Glacier to cool Magmer, and you can also catch it in one cast if you are
patient! Catch Glacier (have a huge hook on your line,) bring it to Magmer, use flick to release it and let
it cool down Magmer.. Once Magmer is in it's cooled state, you can catch the Glacier again that you
previously released. The huge hook you have should allow you to catch Magmer using that Glacier,
since it counts as large bait now! No recasting required :)
ELDER MUSTARDFISH
They really do just look like big Mustardfish. Found in the Very Distant Sea far above the glow bulbs
and Labyrinth, usually visible from your sonar without casting. Stationary, so easy to catch!
ANCIENT KINGFISH
Thinking about wanting to catch the kingfish makes me want to bash my head on my keyboard.
This crowned yellow fish is found in it's respective cave under the plateau, see the Buffalo fish entry to
see how to open the cave. Every royal fish in the area will try to snap your line or try to hook
themselves if you are luring or hooking the kingfish, which means they all need to be gotten rid of.
First, catch the Bishop guarding the Kingfish. After, Caval and the Chook near the cave entrance will be
your biggest obstacle, try to weed them out by catching the visible ones and then luring the other
=== 26.txt ===
ones in the vicinity by baiting (not hooking) the KingFish out of it's cave for a while. Once the Caval
and such are out of the way, you need to catch Regina that will start to follow you if you're luring King,
or snap your hook if you hook the King. Regina will only be interested in your bait if you are luring the
King fish, but the bishop will snap your line if you don't catch it first. The cleanest way to do this is to
put a huge hook with large bait, lure the Kingfish to get Regina to show up, hook the Bishop first, and
then get Regina to eat the Bishop and hook itself. After all of this, you can FINALLY catch the KingFish.
I still recommend luring it up close to the surface before hooking it, though.
REGINA
A red and yellow whale-like fish that swims about with a Bishop at it's side in the Very Distant Sea.
Catching it is directly related with the Kingfish, as seen above. You will need to follow that entry closely
to catch Regina, as it's a part of catching the Kingfish. Normally it is not interested in bait at all. To
describe it in brief here, you need to catch all of the royal fish around the kingfish, and then lure the
kingfish out of the cave so Regina pursues your hook. Have large bait and a huge hook, hook the
bishop, and let Regina hook itself by eating the Bishop.
CHOOK
This large, somewhat dumpy brown-gray fish is only catchable once released from the King fish's cave
in the left of the Labyrinth area. Once released, it will be easily caught with large bait.
YELLOW CARP
Striking yellow, black, and white fish that swim in a tight school to the far right edge of the labyrinth
caves, just below the furthest point the Tech Boat can go. If they aren't there at first, on the rock edge
just above the back entrance, just wait a moment and they should show up. Only needs large bait!
ELDER CHEESEFIN
A larger version of the cheesy lil cheesefin, but with a green mottled underbelly reminiscent of mold.
Found surrounded by lil cheesefin and rare fruit in the right part of the kelp area. Just needs large bait!
PALADIN
A strange looking gray fish found in the second pocket of the Plateau caves. Easy to catch with just
some large bait, no other requirements.
PRIMITIVE
This tusked orange fish is found in the Plateau caves behind the King's cave, if I am remembering
correctly it's in the third pocket and only needs a large bait to catch.
FOREBEARER
The forebearer is a secret fish, it isn't in the catalog. It has a metallic body and looks to be robotic. To
catch it, put a hugehook on your line and catch a Conpas, bring the Conpas to where the Powerfin is.
The powerfin will drag your line to the Forebearer, and with some patience the Forebearer will catch
your line eventually and eat the Powerfin.
=== 27.txt ===
MOSSY
This green and red fish is found hiding amongst the kelp area. Might be a bit slow to see your bait, just
have a moment of patience and it should lunge.
TART
A large green striped fish with orange fins, it has a purple splotch on it's head and a reddish splotch on
it's back near the tail. They swim just above the far right cave entrance of the Labyrinth, under the
furthest spot of the Tech boat. It will snap your line if you're trying to catch the Lindfin. Just needs
large bait and for you to flick your line near it so it will lunge.
BOMBIG
This fish is just a larger looking version of the Bombats in the off-shore caves, found in the top area of
the Labyrinth caves sitting stationary. It will inhale and steal fish off of your line, without hooking itself.
I'm not sure how exactly I caught it, but I remember I fed it lots of the small fish in the labyrinth, almost
clearing it out, and then brought down a Lil cheese fin with a huge hook on my line and for some
reason it hooked! So, I would try both of these methods until I can figure out which specific one is the
case. Try the Lil' cheesefin and huge hook first, then just start feeding it as many small fish as you can
with a huge hook on your line. One of these should potentially work. It's also worth trying to pull your
line up towards the fish and into it's mouth as you are feeding it, as this may also be the solution but
this was not consistent for me.
HUGE FISH
All these fish require Huge hook unless specified otherwise
SHARK
The shark can be found off-shore in the lower mid-ocean and deep area., and can be caught rather
easily with a live fish. The shark will only accept live fish, and I've been able to make it work with
damaged/half eaten fish and a huge hook.
TIGER SHARK
=== 28.txt ===
A long, gray striped shark found in the Open ocean, in the mid-ocean range. It can be pretty easily
caught with large bait and a huge hook.
SWORDFISH
Swordfish is a big blue fish with a long pointy nose, you can find it swimming around the Open ocean
just before the Reef wall, in the shallows and deep ocean. To catch one you only need a Puff on your
hook. Let the swordfish spear the Puff on your hook, and it will stick.
NOCTIS
Noctis can be found swimming in an swooping up and down patter along the deep area in the ocean
only at night or during storms, and can be a bit of a hassle when nightfishing. Noctis will try to snap
your line when you're catching another fish. I've mainly had this interfere with large and huge-fish
catching. Catching the noctis is really annoying, as it has a very small aggro range and it swims pretty
fast. All you need to do is have large bait and a huge hook, try to shove the hook in it's face and that
=== 29.txt ===
should trigger the aggro range and you'll be able to hook it.
MOGA
This fish is surprisingly pretty fast, but can be found in the deep, darker areas of the Open Ocean. The
trick to catching a Moga is, you can't have a light on your hook. Without a light, it's just a large bait
and a huge hook. Personally what I like to do is put a lightbulb on my hook and use it until it has ~1
minute left, and I go and find the Moga while I can still see. It will bob in and out of the edge of the
light, until it goes out.
CAVE SHARK
Cave shark takes the cake as the most annoying fish to catch for me. I've had a lot of bugs and issues
regarding this fish, so keep that in mind when going to catch one. The cave shark is found deep in the
caves, and you should be able to see it on the map provided, hiding in a pocket off the main cave area.
To catch it, you'll have to hook a Bombat onto your rod. Find a round rock, catch it on your line, (which
you need to have bait on your line to do,) and lower it into the caves, wait for a Bombat to latch on and
you're set. It's possible to lure the cave shark out of the caves before hooking it, so I recommend doing
that to make catching it much easier.
MAW
=== 30.txt ===
Not too hard of a huge fish to catch, you'll find it swimming around the bottom-most bulbfish layer in
the off-shore and open ocean area, often stuck trying to eat a bulbfish but failing. The best way to go
about this, get a huge hook, catch the bulb-fish that it's stuck trying to eat, and the hook should be
instant.
HAMAHED
The Hamahed is a very large hammer-head shark swimming about the middle of the Reef. To catch it,
it's pretty simple. Huge hook, large bait, and shove the hook in it's face. Should work like a charm.
ABYSSAL
THIS FISH REQUIRES A MEGA-HOOK. It's a huge, green, segmented fish found deep in the water above
The Silo area. It's fast, and pretty fiesty. To catch one, It's large bait and a MEGA HOOK. It's absolutely
giant size makes it easy to spot in the water, but sometimes it requires some looking around.
=== 31.txt ===
DRAGON
Catching the dragon ties in with how you catch Mamo, which I actually already covered in the
description of Mamo but I'll do it again. The dragon is a huge, serpentine creature found in the area I've
labeled "DRAGON AREA" on the map, so to the right of the Reef area. This creature is really sensitive
to sonar, so you need to turn off/disable all sonar abilities in order to get close to it. The dragon can
only be caught with an egg and you don't need a hook for it. To get the egg, you'll need to get the
Dragon's attention. It doesn't matter what bait is on your hook, any will do. Once you have the
Dragon's attention, keeping it just out of the range of your hook, lead it down into the "MAMO'S DEN"
area, which might take a couple tries. This scares Mamo away from it's egg, which you can then pick
up with your hook. Still keeping just far away enough from the dragon, lure it back outside into the
open where you can then catch it.
NOTE: The dragon takes a really long time to respawn, so don't worry if it's gone for a really long time.
MAGNALAV
YES! THE MAGNALAV! it's finally real and fully implemented, so I can actually add it. The Magnalav is
annoying to catch, as it is scared of movement (or so it seems.) So far my experience with this is:
Moving in a boat, casting from a boat, anything you do from your boat will cause the Magnalav to run.
Sonar does seem to attract it, but I've also been having it show up without any sonar at all after sitting
perfectly still for a while. Might be a bug? anyway... The most reliable way I've found is to go out to the
Reef Barrier, hold open your sonar for a decent amount of time until you see this large purple fish
slither into the bottom portion of your sonar screen. Then, in very small increments, move your boat
back towards shore. Every time you move your boat, the Magnalav will run. Don't be discouraged by
this, if it runs just off screen, staying still and holding your sonar open will draw it back under you.
When you get to shore, UNEQUIP THE BOAT. If you scare Magnalav off, there is a high chance it will
=== 32.txt ===
get stuck on the rocks and bug out. This soft-locks Magnalav, and you have to restart your game. Now
that you are firmly on shore, I recommend using a bunch of bombs to clear the way down to the
Magnalav, who should be comfortably swimming back and forth under you. Don't worry about using
sonar at this point, as it won't run away so long as it's pacing. Now that your path is clear of obstacles
or invading fish, equip your line with a mega hook and some large bait. DO NOT USE A SINKER. It will
only get in your way. Using flick and unyielding patience, inch your line down to the Magnalav without
reeling up, as that will scare it. Now... wait. Magnalav will be painfully slow in it's approach. With
enough time, however, it will snag your hook and bam! fish acquired.
HUGE FISH 2
SHAKU
Shaku can only be found on specific dates, there are sources that say exactly which dates but it
shouldn't take much time-jumping on your computer to find it, Patience is key! They have a 'false eye'
that looks aggressive but their real eye is under the red spot. This shark is found lying on the sea floor
area of the "Dragon Area" as marked on the map provided, after the first cave entrance (not The Empty
cave entrance, the first one past that.) They will spawn asleep, and in order to wake them up you need
to press "Q" to swim down to it and "CTRL" to wake it up. Once awake, you can catch it with a mega
hook and large bait. You can tell when it's awake because it'll start to blink, and it has a pale blue eye.
If you're having issues with lack of oxygen / oxygen running out too fast, try to very slowly tap on your
"S" key while going down, and let the momentum afterwards carry you further with less oxygen
expended. It helps a ton to have no sinker, and get your bait just above it with a lightbulb. It'll help you
locate it and help you see what it is you're doing.
MASK FISH
This huge black angler like fish has a Tim on the end of it's line instead of a bulb. To catch this secret
fish it's a little tricky. You must have a large bait and a mega hook and position yourself over the Silo.
Have no lightbulb on and use SHIFT to turn your hud off BEFORE you cast, I found it's just better luck
that way I guess. Lower your hook down to where the Tim spawn, try to find one even. If it looks like
one is moving oddly, (for me it looked like it was there one second, I would reel or move and it would
suddenly disappear.) the Mask Fish has probably spawned. Just stay still and it should eventually hook.
This may take a few retries before you get it!
DUNKAN
A large armoured fish resembling a dunkleosteus that is found at the very far left edge of the Plateau.
To catch it is gonna take some hard work, bomb stacking, and detonating, so put those attachments on
your rod before you begin. Personally I start with a large bait and bait guard as well just so I am ready.
Lower your rod down to the fish, and use the detonator to explode bombs on the top part of it's
armored face, once broken to a certain point it will swim right, towards the kelp. Continue bombing it,
and it should move further right. Once it gets to the furthest area your boat can reach but BEFORE the
=== 33.txt ===
armor is broken, put a huge hook on your line as well as ensure you have a large bait. If it helps, do one
bomb at a time at this state, just make sure you are putting the huge hook back each time. As soon as
the armor breaks off, it will lunge for your bait. If you either do not have large bait, or are missing a
huge hook, the Dunkan will run out of your reach. Fear not though, restarting your game will reset this
process and you can try again as you need to.
GREAT CUSPER
The great cusper resembles a blue whale somewhat, but in cusper form. It's eye is barely visible on it's
body as two muted rings of blue. Anyway, this fish is attracted similarly to how Old cuspers are, and
can be found in the open area between the Plateau / labyrinth, and Silo areas. To lure it from it's hiding
spot, you will need to not be too close to the bottom of the map with a large bait and mega hook,
move your boat and bait around for some time and a pod of Old cuspers will appear, followed by the
Great Cusper. No other requirements are needed. If they aren't showing up after a considerably
amount of time, move your hook further up. You will need sonar btw!
PROBLEMATICUS
Problematicus is found in the furthest reaches of the Very Distant Sea, just peeking onto your screen
after a rocketed cast. This huge fish resembles the very real huge ancient fish Leedsichthys, which is
on brand with the ancestors theme of the updating introducing it. The first step to catching it is to
obtain the Dig hat, which is hidden away behind a series of rocky walls in the far left of the Very
Distant Sea caves / Labyrinth. There are two ways you can go about getting this hat, the way that I
have described in the tips at the bottom of this guide or you can break open each wall with Buffalo fish
as described in that fish's entry to reach it. Afterwards, follow the hat's instructions and take your
worm from shore, a mega hook, and cast far with rocket! Flick may help you reach out to where the
Problematicus swims. During storms, Problematicus comes much closer to the labyrinth area it seems,
so it may be worth it to wait for one or try to trigger one with the sleeping cap hat (always night) and
resetting the game repeatedly.
ELDER ORWELLIAN
The Elder Orwellian can not be found by normal means. You will need to catch one normal Orwellian,
found laying on top of plateau. Toss it into your boat, and find a spot where there's no bottom of the
map. Areas like this are "The Empty", the spot between the silo and the plateau where the cuspers are,
and the large basin between the shallows and the reef. Once you're here, remove sinker if you have it,
and get yourself a huge hook plus large bait. Put your line in the water, and press "Q" to swim. Grab
the Orwellian from your ship, drag it over your line and let go. A crack of lightning will ring out and kill
any fish in the area, and the Elder Orwellian will drag your line under the map given there's nothing in
it's way. Once it reaches far enough, you are able to pull it back up.
Extra tips and tidbits
=== 34.txt ===
Unhooking a Tim using flick causes them to resume a very strange swimming pattern.
When you're in the very distant sea, hooking a Boom Puff and smacking it on something to make it
explode will give you medium bait, no recast required.
Apparently, Magnalav REALLY hates, or loves? the fact that I set my time clock to 1994, because it
raced to the surface where my boat was and chased my bait frantically before returning to the depths,
and now isn't in my catalog. Not to mention my catalog shifting from 93% to 100% randomly after this
occurring, despite having 100% before?
The KingFish is the only fish in the game that will never respawn after only being caught once,
as even Torby can respawn if you do not catch both. Of course though, catching both will make Torby
never respawn as well.
Potential fennec hat usage??
Something very interesting I've found with the addition of the Fennec hat (which allows you to flick
further, but you always lose fish if you flick) is that it may potentially allow you to catch the Magnalav
at it's spawn. Testing the flick with the Fennec hat, It allows you to flick your way out to the furthest
right edge of the map, past problematicus and Forebearer, to where the screen stops. As I was reeling
back in around the bottom portion of the map, I discovered Magnalav sitting there, and it took interest
in my bait for a moment before fleeing because I flicked. This may mean that using Fennec, you can
catch Magnalav at it's spawn instead of luring it to shore. This needs further testing, but could make
the process far more streamlined for late-game players!
Video guides
Getting Dig Hat Early, proven on video now!
=== 35.txt ===
243 Comments < 1 >
aziz_azimov
Jan 1 @ 2:53pm
For the cuda, it is possible to catch it with the sweet potion from witchy hat. the potion basically
gives you insnane reel speed for a minute. you need to make the cuda follow your lure to the top
and catch it just before your hook exits the water.
lhans11413
Dec 30, 2025 @ 12:12pm
How do I change to the setting of where the line does not snap? Because every time I get a big
fish, the line keeps snapping.
R.E.M [author]
Nov 17, 2025 @ 2:13am
Silo opening is all modded as of right now as far as I'm aware. All of the fish in the guide are
caught with the highest ranked rod, Cuda is just really difficult. It will take you fair few times before
you get a successful catch. You will need to just lure it very close to the surface, like incredibly
close from what I remember. You added the 4 improved crank as well right?
[Myuu] 9 Neneko
Oct 26, 2025 @ 2:39am
For the Cuda, I remember luring it to the surface before letting it bite
For the silo, I don't think it can be opened. There is a video of it closing and open but was done
through modding and is unused.
Crashplayz
Oct 25, 2025 @ 6:03pm
Also how do you open the Silo? I am really interested.
Award Favorite
67
Share
Cat Goes Fishing
Store Page
Posted
Updated
Jul 15, 2020 @ 4:19pm
Sep 3, 2025 @ 7:36pm
CREATED BY
Category: Achievements,
Characters, Classes, Game Modes,
Gameplay Basics, Loot, Maps or
Levels, Secrets, Story or Lore,
Walkthroughs, Workshop
Languages: English
15,100 Unique Visitors
534 Current Favorites
GUIDE INDEX
R.E.M
Online
Overview
=== 36.txt ===
1 >
Crashplayz
Oct 25, 2025 @ 5:42pm
I also got the dig hat by having a fish eat my lure, then crossing through the cave from left edge
plateau to end of time cave. I hope you like this info!
Crashplayz
Oct 25, 2025 @ 5:38pm
I tried a couple times, but I can''t catch the cuda even when putting your recommend with 2 gauge
and even removing sinker for rising lure. I also use flick but it still doesn't work. What else do you
recommend? Specific rod, like quick rod. Or specific upgrade, like mega hook?
R.E.M [author]
Oct 23, 2025 @ 12:33am
Thank you damir, but I hope you know I only made the guide for the game as a huge fan of it early
in its development. When I first played this game, there was no wiki or info available online so I
made the guide to help others with it, in an easily accessible form. I also hope for more updates
though, as it's one of my favorite games! I've sank 182 hours into it so far :)
[Myuu] 9 Neneko
Oct 19, 2025 @ 11:28am
I think there are mods for this game iirc if you are interested in more content. 
TheHydra
Oct 19, 2025 @ 11:22am
I loved playing this game for 86 hours and fully completed it in both classic and realism, I really
wish you will still update the game and I loved watching youtubers play it and convinced 2 of my
friends to get it and they both loved it. If you see this thank you for all the fun I had and I hope for
another update lol
<
MAP REFERENCES
=== 37.txt ===
© 2026 Valve Corporation. All rights reserved.
All trademarks are property of their respective
owners in the US and other countries.
VAT included in all prices where applicable.
Get Mobile Apps
STEAM
About Steam
Steam SSA
Steamworks
Steam Distribution
Gift Cards
VALVE
About Valve
Jobs
Hardware
Recycling
LEGAL
Privacy
Accessibility
Notices & Policies
Cookies
Refunds
MORE
Get Steam
Get Mobile Apps
Get Support
My Account
=== 38.txt ===

